thus says the Lord behold I will raise
thus says the Lord behold I will raise up against Babylon against those who
up against Babylon against those who
up against Babylon against those who dwell in let came I a destroying wind
dwell in let came I a destroying wind
dwell in let came I a destroying wind and I will send winds to Babylon who
and I will send winds to Babylon who
and I will send winds to Babylon who shall winnow her and empty her land for
shall winnow her and empty her land for
shall winnow her and empty her land for in the day of doom they shall be against
in the day of doom they shall be against
in the day of doom they shall be against her all around against her let the
her all around against her let the
her all around against her let the archer bend his bow and lift himself up
archer bend his bow and lift himself up
archer bend his bow and lift himself up against her in his Armour do not spare
against her in his Armour do not spare
against her in his Armour do not spare her young men utterly destroy all her
her young men utterly destroy all her
her young men utterly destroy all her army thus the slain shall fall in the
army thus the slain shall fall in the
army thus the slain shall fall in the land of the Chaldeans and those thrust
land of the Chaldeans and those thrust
land of the Chaldeans and those thrust through in her streets for Israel is not
through in her streets for Israel is not
through in her streets for Israel is not forsaken nor Judah by his God the Lord
forsaken nor Judah by his God the Lord
forsaken nor Judah by his God the Lord of Hosts though their land was filled
of Hosts though their land was filled
of Hosts though their land was filled with sin against the Holy One of Israel
with sin against the Holy One of Israel
with sin against the Holy One of Israel flee from the midst of Babylon and
flee from the midst of Babylon and
flee from the midst of Babylon and everyone save his life
everyone save his life
everyone save his life do not be cut off in her iniquity for
do not be cut off in her iniquity for
do not be cut off in her iniquity for this is the time of the Lord's vengeance
this is the time of the Lord's vengeance
this is the time of the Lord's vengeance he shall recompense her Babylon was a
he shall recompense her Babylon was a
he shall recompense her Babylon was a golden cup in the Lord's hand that made
golden cup in the Lord's hand that made
golden cup in the Lord's hand that made all the earth drunk the nation's drank
all the earth drunk the nation's drank
all the earth drunk the nation's drank her wine therefore the nation's are
her wine therefore the nation's are
her wine therefore the nation's are deranged Babylon has suddenly fallen and
deranged Babylon has suddenly fallen and
deranged Babylon has suddenly fallen and been destroyed wail for her
been destroyed wail for her
been destroyed wail for her take BOM for her pain perhaps she may be
take BOM for her pain perhaps she may be
take BOM for her pain perhaps she may be healed we would have healed Babylon but
healed we would have healed Babylon but
healed we would have healed Babylon but she is not healed forsake her and let us
she is not healed forsake her and let us
she is not healed forsake her and let us go everyone to his own country for her
go everyone to his own country for her
go everyone to his own country for her judgment reaches to heaven and is lifted
judgment reaches to heaven and is lifted
judgment reaches to heaven and is lifted up to the skies the Lord has revealed
up to the skies the Lord has revealed
up to the skies the Lord has revealed our of righteousness come and let us
our of righteousness come and let us
our of righteousness come and let us declare in Zion the work of the Lord our
declare in Zion the work of the Lord our
declare in Zion the work of the Lord our God make the arrows bright gather the
God make the arrows bright gather the
God make the arrows bright gather the shields the Lord has raised up the
shields the Lord has raised up the
shields the Lord has raised up the spirit of the kings of the Medes for his
spirit of the kings of the Medes for his
spirit of the kings of the Medes for his plan is against Babylon to destroy it
plan is against Babylon to destroy it
plan is against Babylon to destroy it because it is the Vengeance of the Lord
because it is the Vengeance of the Lord
because it is the Vengeance of the Lord the vengeance for his temple said of the
the vengeance for his temple said of the
the vengeance for his temple said of the standard on the walls of Babylon make
standard on the walls of Babylon make
standard on the walls of Babylon make the guards strong set up the Watchmen
the guards strong set up the Watchmen
the guards strong set up the Watchmen prepare the ambushes for the Lord has
prepare the ambushes for the Lord has
prepare the ambushes for the Lord has both devised and done what he spoke
both devised and done what he spoke
both devised and done what he spoke against the inhabitants of Babylon
against the inhabitants of Babylon
against the inhabitants of Babylon o you who dwell by many waters abundant
o you who dwell by many waters abundant
o you who dwell by many waters abundant in treasures your end has come the
in treasures your end has come the
in treasures your end has come the measure of your covetousness the Lord of
measure of your covetousness the Lord of
measure of your covetousness the Lord of Hosts has sworn by himself surely I will
Hosts has sworn by himself surely I will
Hosts has sworn by himself surely I will fill you with men as with locusts and
fill you with men as with locusts and
fill you with men as with locusts and they shall lift up a shout against you
they shall lift up a shout against you
they shall lift up a shout against you he has made the earth by his power he
he has made the earth by his power he
he has made the earth by his power he has established the world by his wisdom
has established the world by his wisdom
has established the world by his wisdom and stretched out the heaven by his
and stretched out the heaven by his
and stretched out the heaven by his understanding when he utters his voice
understanding when he utters his voice
understanding when he utters his voice there is a multitude of waters in the
there is a multitude of waters in the
there is a multitude of waters in the heavens he causes the vapors to ascend
heavens he causes the vapors to ascend
heavens he causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth
from the ends of the earth
from the ends of the earth he makes lightnings for the rain he
he makes lightnings for the rain he
he makes lightnings for the rain he brings the wind out of his Treasuries
brings the wind out of his Treasuries
brings the wind out of his Treasuries everyone is dull hearted without
everyone is dull hearted without
everyone is dull hearted without knowledge every metalsmith is
knowledge every metalsmith is
knowledge every metalsmith is shame by the carved image for his molded
shame by the carved image for his molded
shame by the carved image for his molded image is falsehood and there is no
image is falsehood and there is no
image is falsehood and there is no breath in them they are futile a work of
breath in them they are futile a work of
breath in them they are futile a work of errors in the time of their punishment
errors in the time of their punishment
errors in the time of their punishment they shall perish the portion of Jacob
they shall perish the portion of Jacob
they shall perish the portion of Jacob is not like them for he is the maker of
is not like them for he is the maker of
is not like them for he is the maker of all things and Israel is the tribe of
all things and Israel is the tribe of
all things and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance the Lord of Hosts is his
his inheritance the Lord of Hosts is his
his inheritance the Lord of Hosts is his name
name
name you are my battle axe and weapons war
you are my battle axe and weapons war
you are my battle axe and weapons war for with you I will break the nation in
for with you I will break the nation in
for with you I will break the nation in pieces with you I will destroy kingdoms
pieces with you I will destroy kingdoms
pieces with you I will destroy kingdoms with you I will break in pieces the
with you I will break in pieces the
with you I will break in pieces the horse and it's rider with you I will
horse and it's rider with you I will
horse and it's rider with you I will break in pieces the chariot and its
break in pieces the chariot and its
break in pieces the chariot and its rider with you also I will break in
rider with you also I will break in
rider with you also I will break in pieces man and woman with you I will
pieces man and woman with you I will
pieces man and woman with you I will break in pieces old and young with you I
break in pieces old and young with you I
break in pieces old and young with you I will break in pieces the young man and
will break in pieces the young man and
will break in pieces the young man and the maiden with you also I will break in
the maiden with you also I will break in
the maiden with you also I will break in pieces the Shepherd and his flock with
pieces the Shepherd and his flock with
pieces the Shepherd and his flock with you I will break in pieces the farmer
you I will break in pieces the farmer
you I will break in pieces the farmer and his yoke of oxen and with you
and his yoke of oxen and with you
and his yoke of oxen and with you I will break in pieces governors and
I will break in pieces governors and
I will break in pieces governors and rulers and I will repay Babylon and all
rulers and I will repay Babylon and all
rulers and I will repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chaldea for all the
the inhabitants of Chaldea for all the
the inhabitants of Chaldea for all the evil they have done in Zion in your
evil they have done in Zion in your
evil they have done in Zion in your sight
sight
sight behold I am against you Oh destroying
behold I am against you Oh destroying
behold I am against you Oh destroying mountain who destroys all the earth and
mountain who destroys all the earth and
mountain who destroys all the earth and I will stretch out my hand against you
I will stretch out my hand against you
I will stretch out my hand against you roll you down from the rocks and make
roll you down from the rocks and make
roll you down from the rocks and make you a burnt Mountain they shall not take
you a burnt Mountain they shall not take
you a burnt Mountain they shall not take from you a stone for a corner nor a
from you a stone for a corner nor a
from you a stone for a corner nor a stone for a foundation but you shall be
stone for a foundation but you shall be
stone for a foundation but you shall be desolate forever set up a banner in the
desolate forever set up a banner in the
desolate forever set up a banner in the land
land
land blow the trumpet among the nations
blow the trumpet among the nations
blow the trumpet among the nations prepare the nations against her call the
prepare the nations against her call the
prepare the nations against her call the kingdoms together against her Ararat
kingdoms together against her Ararat
kingdoms together against her Ararat min.i and Ashkenaz appointed general
min.i and Ashkenaz appointed general
min.i and Ashkenaz appointed general against her cause the horses to come up
against her cause the horses to come up
against her cause the horses to come up like the bristling locusts prepare
like the bristling locusts prepare
like the bristling locusts prepare against her the nations with the kings
against her the nations with the kings
against her the nations with the kings of the Medes its governors and all its
of the Medes its governors and all its
of the Medes its governors and all its rulers all the land of his Dominion and
rulers all the land of his Dominion and
rulers all the land of his Dominion and the land will tremble and sorrow for
the land will tremble and sorrow for
the land will tremble and sorrow for every purpose of the Lord shall be
every purpose of the Lord shall be
every purpose of the Lord shall be performed against Babylon to make the
performed against Babylon to make the
performed against Babylon to make the land of Babylon a desolation without
land of Babylon a desolation without
land of Babylon a desolation without inhabitant the mighty men of Babylon
inhabitant the mighty men of Babylon
inhabitant the mighty men of Babylon have ceased fighting they have remained
have ceased fighting they have remained
have ceased fighting they have remained in their strongholds their might has
in their strongholds their might has
in their strongholds their might has failed they became like women they have
failed they became like women they have
failed they became like women they have burned her dwelling places the bars of
burned her dwelling places the bars of
burned her dwelling places the bars of our gate are broken one runner will run
our gate are broken one runner will run
our gate are broken one runner will run to meet another and one messenger to
to meet another and one messenger to
to meet another and one messenger to meet another to show the king of Babylon
meet another to show the king of Babylon
meet another to show the king of Babylon that his city is taken on all sides the
that his city is taken on all sides the
that his city is taken on all sides the passages are blocked the reads they have
passages are blocked the reads they have
passages are blocked the reads they have burned with fire and the men of war are
burned with fire and the men of war are
burned with fire and the men of war are terrified
terrified
terrified for thus says the Lord of hosts the God
for thus says the Lord of hosts the God
for thus says the Lord of hosts the God of Israel the daughter of Babylon is
of Israel the daughter of Babylon is
of Israel the daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor when it is time
like a threshing floor when it is time
like a threshing floor when it is time to Thresh her yet a little while and the
to Thresh her yet a little while and the
to Thresh her yet a little while and the time of her harvest will come
time of her harvest will come
time of her harvest will come Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon has
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon has
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon has devoured me he has crushed me he has
devoured me he has crushed me he has
devoured me he has crushed me he has made me an empty vessel
made me an empty vessel
made me an empty vessel he has swallowed me up like a monster he
he has swallowed me up like a monster he
he has swallowed me up like a monster he has filled his stomach with my
has filled his stomach with my
has filled his stomach with my delicacies he has spit me out what the
delicacies he has spit me out what the
delicacies he has spit me out what the violence done to me and my flesh be upon
violence done to me and my flesh be upon
violence done to me and my flesh be upon Babylon the inhabitant of Zion will say
Babylon the inhabitant of Zion will say
Babylon the inhabitant of Zion will say and my blood be upon the inhabitants of
and my blood be upon the inhabitants of
and my blood be upon the inhabitants of Chaldea Jerusalem will say therefore
Chaldea Jerusalem will say therefore
Chaldea Jerusalem will say therefore thus says the Lord behold I will plead
thus says the Lord behold I will plead
thus says the Lord behold I will plead your case and take vengeance for you I
your case and take vengeance for you I
your case and take vengeance for you I will dry up her sea and make her Springs
will dry up her sea and make her Springs
will dry up her sea and make her Springs dry babylon shall become a heap a
dry babylon shall become a heap a
dry babylon shall become a heap a dwelling place for jackals an
dwelling place for jackals an
dwelling place for jackals an astonishment and a hissing without an
astonishment and a hissing without an
astonishment and a hissing without an inhabitant they shall roar to gather
inhabitant they shall roar to gather
inhabitant they shall roar to gather like lions they shall growl like lions
like lions they shall growl like lions
like lions they shall growl like lions whilst in their excitement I will
whilst in their excitement I will
whilst in their excitement I will prepare their feasts I will make them
prepare their feasts I will make them
prepare their feasts I will make them drunk that they may rejoice and sleep a
drunk that they may rejoice and sleep a
drunk that they may rejoice and sleep a perpetual sleep and not awake I will
perpetual sleep and not awake I will
perpetual sleep and not awake I will bring them down like lambs to the
bring them down like lambs to the
bring them down like lambs to the slaughter like Rams with male goats oh
slaughter like Rams with male goats oh
slaughter like Rams with male goats oh how she Shak is taken oh how the praise
how she Shak is taken oh how the praise
how she Shak is taken oh how the praise of the whole earth is seized our babylon
of the whole earth is seized our babylon
of the whole earth is seized our babylon has become desolate among the nations
has become desolate among the nations
has become desolate among the nations the sea has come up over Babylon she is
the sea has come up over Babylon she is
the sea has come up over Babylon she is covered with the multitude of its waves
covered with the multitude of its waves
covered with the multitude of its waves their cities are a desolation a dry land
their cities are a desolation a dry land
their cities are a desolation a dry land a wilderness a land where no one dwells
a wilderness a land where no one dwells
a wilderness a land where no one dwells through which no son of man passes I
through which no son of man passes I
through which no son of man passes I will punish Belle in Babylon and I will
will punish Belle in Babylon and I will
will punish Belle in Babylon and I will bring out of his mouth what he has
bring out of his mouth what he has
bring out of his mouth what he has swallowed and the nations shall not
swallowed and the nations shall not
swallowed and the nations shall not stream to him anymore yes the wall of
stream to him anymore yes the wall of
stream to him anymore yes the wall of Babylon shall fall my people go out of
Babylon shall fall my people go out of
Babylon shall fall my people go out of the midst of her and let everyone
the midst of her and let everyone
the midst of her and let everyone deliver himself from the fierce anger of
deliver himself from the fierce anger of
deliver himself from the fierce anger of the Lord and list your heart faint and
the Lord and list your heart faint and
the Lord and list your heart faint and you fear for the rumour that will be
you fear for the rumour that will be
you fear for the rumour that will be heard in the land a rumor will come one
heard in the land a rumor will come one
heard in the land a rumor will come one year and after that in another year a
year and after that in another year a
year and after that in another year a rumor will come and violence in the land
rumor will come and violence in the land
rumor will come and violence in the land ruler against ruler therefore behold the
ruler against ruler therefore behold the
ruler against ruler therefore behold the days are coming that I will bring
days are coming that I will bring
days are coming that I will bring judgment on the carved images of Babylon
judgment on the carved images of Babylon
judgment on the carved images of Babylon a whole land shall be ashamed and all
a whole land shall be ashamed and all
a whole land shall be ashamed and all her slain shall fall in her midst then
her slain shall fall in her midst then
her slain shall fall in her midst then the heavens and the earth and all that
the heavens and the earth and all that
the heavens and the earth and all that is in them shall sing joyously over
is in them shall sing joyously over
is in them shall sing joyously over Babylon for the plunderers shall come to
Babylon for the plunderers shall come to
Babylon for the plunderers shall come to her from the north as Babylon has caused
her from the north as Babylon has caused
her from the north as Babylon has caused the slain of Israel to fall so at
the slain of Israel to fall so at
the slain of Israel to fall so at Babylon the slain of all the earth
you who have escaped the sword getaway
you who have escaped the sword getaway do not stand still remember the Lord
do not stand still remember the Lord
do not stand still remember the Lord afar off and let Jerusalem come to your
afar off and let Jerusalem come to your
afar off and let Jerusalem come to your mind we are ashamed because we have
mind we are ashamed because we have
mind we are ashamed because we have heard reproach shame has covered our
heard reproach shame has covered our
heard reproach shame has covered our faces for strangers have come into the
faces for strangers have come into the
faces for strangers have come into the sanctuaries of the Lord's house
sanctuaries of the Lord's house
sanctuaries of the Lord's house therefore behold the days are coming
therefore behold the days are coming
therefore behold the days are coming says the Lord that I will bring judgment
says the Lord that I will bring judgment
says the Lord that I will bring judgment on her carved images and throughout all
on her carved images and throughout all
on her carved images and throughout all her land the wounded shall groan though
her land the wounded shall groan though
her land the wounded shall groan though Babylon were to mount up to heaven and
Babylon were to mount up to heaven and
Babylon were to mount up to heaven and though she were to fortify the height of
though she were to fortify the height of
though she were to fortify the height of her strength yet from me plunderers
her strength yet from me plunderers
her strength yet from me plunderers would come to her the sound of a cry
would come to her the sound of a cry
would come to her the sound of a cry comes from Babylon and great destruction
comes from Babylon and great destruction
comes from Babylon and great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans because
from the land of the Chaldeans because
from the land of the Chaldeans because the Lord is plundering Babylon and
the Lord is plundering Babylon and
the Lord is plundering Babylon and silencing her loud voice though her
silencing her loud voice though her
silencing her loud voice though her waves roar like great waters and the
waves roar like great waters and the
waves roar like great waters and the noise of their voice is uttered because
noise of their voice is uttered because
noise of their voice is uttered because the plunder comes against her against
the plunder comes against her against
the plunder comes against her against Babylon and her mighty men are taken
Babylon and her mighty men are taken
Babylon and her mighty men are taken every one of their bows is broken for
every one of their bows is broken for
every one of their bows is broken for the Lord is the God of recompense
the Lord is the God of recompense
the Lord is the God of recompense he will surely repay and I will make
he will surely repay and I will make
he will surely repay and I will make drunk her Prince's and wise men a
drunk her Prince's and wise men a
drunk her Prince's and wise men a governor's a deputies and her mighty men
governor's a deputies and her mighty men
governor's a deputies and her mighty men and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep
and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep
and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep and not awake says the king whose name
and not awake says the king whose name
and not awake says the king whose name is the Lord of Hosts thus says the Lord
is the Lord of Hosts thus says the Lord
is the Lord of Hosts thus says the Lord of Hosts the broad walls of Babylon
of Hosts the broad walls of Babylon
of Hosts the broad walls of Babylon shall be utterly broken and her high
shall be utterly broken and her high
shall be utterly broken and her high gates shall be burned with fire the
gates shall be burned with fire the
gates shall be burned with fire the people will labor in vain and the
people will labor in vain and the
people will labor in vain and the nations because of the fire and they
nations because of the fire and they
nations because of the fire and they shall be weary
shall be weary
shall be weary the word which Jeremiah the Prophet
the word which Jeremiah the Prophet
the word which Jeremiah the Prophet commanded suryya
commanded suryya
commanded suryya the son of Neriah the son of Marcia when
the son of Neriah the son of Marcia when
the son of Neriah the son of Marcia when he went with Zedekiah the king of Judah
he went with Zedekiah the king of Judah
he went with Zedekiah the king of Judah to Babylon in the fourth year of his
to Babylon in the fourth year of his
to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign and suryya
reign and suryya
reign and suryya was the quartermaster so Jeremiah wrote
was the quartermaster so Jeremiah wrote
was the quartermaster so Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that would come
in a book all the evil that would come
in a book all the evil that would come upon Babylon all these words that are
upon Babylon all these words that are
upon Babylon all these words that are written against Babylon and Jeremiah are
written against Babylon and Jeremiah are
written against Babylon and Jeremiah are said to survive when you arrive in
said to survive when you arrive in
said to survive when you arrive in Babylon and see it and read all these
Babylon and see it and read all these
Babylon and see it and read all these words then you shall say O Lord you have
words then you shall say O Lord you have
words then you shall say O Lord you have spoken against this place to cut it off
spoken against this place to cut it off
spoken against this place to cut it off so that none shall remain in it neither
so that none shall remain in it neither
so that none shall remain in it neither man nor beast but it shall be desolate
man nor beast but it shall be desolate
man nor beast but it shall be desolate for ever now it shall be when you have
for ever now it shall be when you have
for ever now it shall be when you have finished reading this book that you
finished reading this book that you
finished reading this book that you shall tie a stone to it and throw it out
shall tie a stone to it and throw it out
shall tie a stone to it and throw it out into the Euphrates then you shall say
into the Euphrates then you shall say
into the Euphrates then you shall say thus Babylon shall sink and not rise
thus Babylon shall sink and not rise
thus Babylon shall sink and not rise from the catastrophe that I will bring
from the catastrophe that I will bring
from the catastrophe that I will bring upon her and they shall be weary thus
upon her and they shall be weary thus
upon her and they shall be weary thus far are the words of Jeremiah